Introduction
Introduction
The sixth century
B.C. was an age of crisis, a turning point in the history of Israel. With the
destruction of the temple and the interruption of its ritual, the exile of the
leaders and loss of national sovereignty, an era came to an end. Not long after
the fall of Jerusalem (587) an eyewitness of the national humiliation composed
these five laments. They combine confession of sin, grief over the suffering
and humiliation of Zion, submission to merited chastisement, and strong faith in
the constancy of Yahweh's love and power to restore. The union of poignant
grief and unquenchable hope reflects the constant prophetic vision of the
weakness of man and the strength of God's love; it also shows how Israel's
faith in Yahweh could survive the shattering experience of national ruin.
As a literary work, the
Book of Lamentations is carefully constructed according to a familiar
structural device. The first four poems are acrostics in which the separate
stanzas begin with successive letters of the Hebrew alphabet from the first to
the last. Far from destroying the spontaneous pathos of the songs, this
literary feature permits a symbolic and disciplined expression of the profound
grief, the sinful responsibility, and the enduring hope of the suffering
community. The figure of Israel as the bride of Yahweh, familiar from the
prophets, appears here again; but now Zion is a desolate widow, the Judaea
Capta of Titus' memorial coins, sustained only by the faith that God's
chastisement will eventually give place to his infinite compassion.